note: this is not the best way to read the manual! to view the unedited version, visit github.com/nanobot567/seasynth/blob/main/manual.md


--- SeaSynth manual ---

In SeaSynth, there are three main screens, each of which will be explored in this manual:
1. pattern
2. track
3. song

You can swap between these screens by pressing B until the text shown says screen, and then cranking. This crank mode menu will be accessed often as you use SeaSynth.

-- pattern --

The pattern screen is the first you will see when you open SeaSynth. Here, you can place notes down on each track and edit parameters such as velocity, pitch, and note length.

Here there are four main elements:

1. The note grid at the top, which shows every note in the current track, and allows you to edit them.

2. The active tracks display below the note grid, which shows the tracks that are playing notes.

3. The step display at the bottom left, which shows the step that the sequencer is currently on.

4. The track name and number at the bottom bottom, which shows which track is selected.

To place down a note, move your cursor (which should be located at the top left of your note grid) to the space you would like using the d-pad. Afterwards, navigate to the note status crank mode option by pressing B until that text appears. Then, crank until you see the note turn on or off under your cursor.

To make placing down and editing notes at intervals easier, there is an option in the Playdate menu called autonote, which will do this for you.

To edit the pitch of the note, cycle through the crank mode menu until you reach pitch, then crank like you did for note status. Changing the track, velocity, and note length are done this same way.

You can start or stop the sequence by pressing A.

-- track --

On the track screen, you can edit the instruments of your tracks, or mute tracks by pressing right in the track list.

To edit an instrument, select the track you want in the list. It will be marked with the number and the instrument type. Instrument types can be any of the following:

SIN - sine wave

SQU - square wave

SAW - sawtooth wave

TRI - triangle wave

NSE - noise

POP - pocket operator synth phase

POD - pocket operator synth digital

POV - pocket operator synth vosim

SMP - user sample

Once you select a track, you will be inside the instrument editor screen. You can navigate this screen using the d-pad, and interact with elements by either pressing A on buttons, or cranking with the mode set to turn knob to spin knobs. Each segment is pretty self-explainatory, except for the two modules marked WAV and SMP located on the left, and the SHFT module below ADSR.

The SHFT module transposes every note in the current track. Its range is -24 to 24 semitones.

By turning the WAV knob, you can select the waveform that your track uses, but any user imported sample selected in the SMP module will be replaced. You will know if a sample is selected by the line connecting the SMP segment to ADSR.

When you go to select a sample, you will arrive at a list, usually with four options within it. These options are as follows:

1. record sample - here you can record a sample using the microphone.

2. samples/ - this is your samples folder, containing all samples imported by the user.

3. songs/ - all of your saved songs are here.

4. temp/ - the temp/ folder contains all of the samples in your song that has not yet been saved. This will be deleted at the end of a session.

Within the file picker, you can enter folders or select a file using A, and exit folders or exit the picker using B. Like all other lists, you can navigate the list using up and down. Here you can also preview .pda samples by pressing right.
Here you can also save and load your songs via the Playdate OS menu. In the menu, you can also modify SeaSynth settings, such as dark mode, crank sensitivity, and the name used to sign your saved songs.

-- song --

In the song screen, you can view and modify your song's global options, such as the tempo and pattern length. Your song name and author name is displayed at the top.

Here you can also save and load your songs via the Playdate OS menu. In the menu, you can access and change SeaSynth settings, such as dark mode, crank sensitivity, and the name used to sign your saved songs.
